feat: CXSPA-11727 Installation and migration docs adjustments (#20970)
SAP/spartacus: docs/migration/221121_8/migration.md

Reviewer: [I could not comment on exact line, so commenting here]

1. 

> The result of migration should be following:
> (...)
> ```
> +      "root": "",
> +      "sourceRoot": "src",
> ```

I already had it in my ng19 app

2. 

> ```diff
>             "outputPath": "dist/<your-project-name>",
> -            "index": "src/index.html",
>             "browser": "src/main.ts",
> ```

When I compare a migrated app vs new app, I can see one more property removed: outputPath. Is it correct?

Author: 1. Good point, I removed it from the doc. Thanks!
2. Yes, starting from v20, the `outputPath` defaults to `dist/<project_name>` (for more, see: https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/pull/29905). Unfortunately, it is difficult to determine whether customers modified this value in their projects and what their motivation was, so I did not want to force the removal of this value from migrated applications, even at the cost of inconsistency between new and migrated. 
However, we can suggest to customers that they can remove it from their projects if the value is the same as the default, i.e.

> 

Reviewer: According to Matt's last year's comments, let's mention also that customer might be faced with other optional migration:

```
Select the migrations that you'd like to run
❯◯ [control-flow-migration] Converts the entire application to block control flow syntax.
 ◯ [router-current-navigation] Replaces usages of the deprecated Router.getCurrentNavigation method with the Router.currentNavigation signal.
```

And let's inform that from Spartacus perspective those Angular migrations are not required, but customer may decide to opt-in to them

Angular migration also takes care of adding `"typeSeparator": "."` to and proper type (suffix) to relevant schematics.

### Update Angular to 21 and 3rd party deps to be compatible with Angular 21

Follow the [Angular guidelines for upgrading from v20 to v21](https://angular.dev/update-guide?v=20.0-21.0&l=3) and bump the Angular version locally, and update other 3rd party dependencies from Angular ecosystem to versions compatible with Angular 21 (e.g. `@ng-select/ng-select@latest`, `@ngrx/store@21`, `angular-oauth2-oidc@21`, `ngx-infinite-scroll@latest`):

```bash

> ng update @angular/core@21 @angular/cli@21 @ngrx/store@21 angular-oauth2-oidc@21 @ng-select/ng-select@21 ngx-infinite-scroll@21 --force

Reviewer: [INFO]
I got an error
`Package specified by 'angular-oauth2-oidc@21' does not exist within the registry.`
But I understand it's temporary error until the release. I'm testing with angular-oauth2-oidc@20 then

Author: Good point. That was my intention, however the v21 is not yet released and it still to be decided whether we want wait for it or we will go with version 20 (works as expected also with Angular 21). For the safety reasons, I'll change the version here to v20 (even if duplicated with the previous step) and we'll track it and adjust, if needed.

    }
```

> Starting from Angular 20, the `outputPath` option defaults to `dist/<project-name>`, what removest the need to explicitly setting it within a freshly generated app. If your migrated app has `outputPath` set to `dist/<project-name>`, we recommend removing it to keep it consistent with a new app structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: In fresh apps generated with Angular 21, the `outputPath` option is skipped and implicitly defaults to `dist/<project-name>`. If your migrated app has `outputPath` set to `dist/<project-name>`, we recommend removing it as not necessary.
```

    "enableI18nLegacyMessageIdFormat": false,
    "strictInjectionParameters": true,
    "strictInputAccessModifiers": true,

> +    "typeCheckHostBindings": true,

Reviewer: [QUESTION]
Why are we no longer recommending to add this manually to a migrated app?
I guess because it will be cumbersome for customers to comply with those new type checks and would require [a workaround like we did](https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/pull/20967) (with global keyboard event types)? That said, won't our `declare global` workaround implicitly fix all the issues for customers (so they could safely use `"typeCheckHostBindings": true,` in their migrated apps)?

Author: The `typeCheckHostBindings` is enabled by default starting from version 21 and does not need to be explicitly set, that's why it was removed. We still recommend to do it and thank you for this comment - most likely we'll have to let our customers know about the workaround we did, so they can apply it in their projects.

Author: Alternatively, we could initially suggest/automate disabling this flag and describe how to enable it and what's te workaround for missing types. Which approach would you prefer? In my opinion we should require this flag to keep migrated app in line with fresh installation, what we want to achieve. In addition, having it enabled now make's our customers' apps future proof (in case Angular Team decide to remove option for disabling such a type check).

I pushed update to the doc describing the issue and how to fix it. Let me know if such description works for you.

+}
```

> It's worth noting that starting from Angular 21, flag `typeCheckHostBindings` is enabled by default. Due to its srtict type checking, it cause a [known issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/63170) if specific `keydown` bindings are used in `@HostListener` decorators. To solve the problem in Spartacus repo, we introduced [type augmentation](https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/blob/ac651f413f44345bf8519391789c4f47c8ed02b0/types.d.ts#L1) for `global` interface. If you encounter similar issues in your application, it is recommended to apply the same type augmentation approach in your project.

Reviewer: [MEDIUM]
> starting from Angular 21, flag `typeCheckHostBindings` is enabled by default.

I understood in the past that only fresh apps get this config enabled by default. (Maybe I missunderstood it?) But this paragraph sounds like all ng21 apps (even migrated ones) get it enabled by default.

If I understood correctly, I'd suggest the following edits:

```suggestion
Note: In fresh apps generated with Angular 21 CLI, the flag `typeCheckHostBindings` is enabled by default, so we suggest adding it also in migrated apps from Angular 19 to 21. However in apps migrated from Angular 19 to 21 beware it might cause issues. Due to its strict type checking, it causes a [known Angular issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/63170) if specific `keydown` bindings are used in `@HostListener` decorators. To solve the problem in Spartacus repo, we introduced [type augmentation](https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/blob/ac651f413f44345bf8519391789c4f47c8ed02b0/types.d.ts#L1) for `global` interface. If you encounter similar issues in your application, we recommend you to apply analogical type augmentation solution in your project like we did in Spartacus repo.
```

While it's not recommended, you can still disable the flag by adding the following configuration to your `tsconfig.json`:

```diff
{
  "angularCompilerOptions": {
    "enableI18nLegacyMessageIdFormat": false,
    "strictInjectionParameters": true,
    "strictInputAccessModifiers": true,

>     "strictTemplates": true,

Reviewer: [NITPICK]
For brevity, I'd remove those guys, and leave only what has changed

export class AppModule { }
```

> Note: The following migration should also take care of adding `provideZoneChangeDetection` to `main.ts` together with migrating deprecated bootstrap options:

Reviewer: [MEDIUM]
To modernize the app truly (i.e to look like a fresh angular app), I'd suggest in Manual Steps to move this provider directly manually to app.module.

```
❯ Migrates deprecated bootstrap options to providers.
UPDATE src/main.ts (334 bytes)
(1 file modified)

> ```

Reviewer: [MINOR]
While reading the doc top-down, I'm confused in this moment of reading. When this migration runs? There is no migration command to be run here.

I guess this paragraph is about a migration that has been run automatically earlier in the process. In that case, let's make it clear it was already run in the past (so me as a reader I'm not uncertain whether I maybe missed running some command). For example:
"The following migration was likely already executed earlier by the `ng update` command and it should already have taken care of adding..."

If not, please add it manually as shown below:

```diff
+ import { provideZoneChangeDetection } from '@angular/core';

 platformBrowser().bootstrapModule(AppModule, {
-  ngZoneEventCoalescing: true,
+  provideZoneChangeDetection({ eventCoalescing: true }),
})
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

## Additional migration steps if using Server Side Rendering (SSR)

### Upgrade Express to Version 5

> Spartacus 221121.<latest> requires Express 5.x. Upgrade Express:

Reviewer: [MINOR]
PR description says everything is meant to be updated to `.8`. Is this a left over? if yes, there are more places like this.
